Eye movement detected.
What is 2 plus 2?
Incorrect.
Cognition assessment.
What is 2 plus 2?
Incorrect.
You have been in a
medically induced coma.
You may experience memory loss.
difficulty speaking.
Body movement detected.
For your own safety. please
return to the medical platform.
Good Luck!
Location: Medical Arm
Please remember. muscle function
has not yet been restored.
No.
People!
Hello!
Oh.
YAO. L.J. : Deceased
Where am I?
Why is there an atomic resolution
scanning electron microscope?
Why do I know that?
Am I smart?
Hello?
Please record video diary. No.
in charge?
The captain.
Captain Yao Li-Jie. Deceased.
Yeah. Where are
the living people?
Dr. Ryland Grace.
End of manifest.
I can't be the only
person here. right?
Pilot detected.
No. no. no. not the pilot.
Uh. call. uh. Houston.
Unknown command.
Operation go home in effect.
Invalid operation.
That's the sun!
There it is.
So. what are we
like Neptune-ish?
Let's crank up the
radio and call Earth.
Current transmission
time to Earth
is 11 years. 10 months.
14 days and 6 hours.
No. Nope. You're wrong.
I need a map.
Oh.
That's really far.
That's not our sun.
Where is the fuel?
Fuel Level: Low
Wait.
Rate= 6 g/s = 6 x 310
Fuel= 11.581 kg
We are just minutes away from the
flyby through the Petrova line near Venus.
So. what can you tell us
about the ArcLight probe?
ArcLight seeks to unlock mystery of the Petrova Line
What do we expect to find?
The image we see will be coming
from the onboard microscope.
Oh! Oh my God!
Sorry. I have to go now.
Oh my God!
Sound waves are physical
and at different frequencies
they make different patterns.
Patterns.
They make different patterns.
Olivia. can you help me out?
Try going.
There we go.
Whoa!
Yeah?
Are they really eating the sun?
The space dots?
That is a great
question. uh. Rekha.
I'd be curious what your
parents think about that?
I'm not sure it
should come from me.
Hey. who wants to
play a game of...
The beanbag is lava!
Lava! Lava! Lava!
What is the speed
of light. Olivia?
Uh... It's melting
your hands. Olivia!
186.000 miles per second!
Oh! Give her a
round of applause.
That is awesome!
What is the Petrova line?
Ha ha ha! Pass!
You can't pass.
Lava! Lava! Lava!
Two years ago.
a radio telescope enthusiast
named Irina Petrova.
she noticed that there was
a streak of infrared light
from the sun to Venus.
And that is now known
as the Petrova line.
That's it.
That's the dots?
They think so.
What dots?
These dots.
They sent a probe up
to the Petrova line.
and this is what they found.
Are they eating the sun?
They seem to be dimming the sun
a tiny. teeny. weeny little bit.
So no big whoop.
It's a small whoop.
It's a small to medium whoop.
Over the next 30
years. the Earth could
cool maybe 10 to
15 degrees.
So it is a big whoop.
I heard that all
the crops will die.
die. the economy will free fall.
and half the Earth
will die of starvation.
We're all gonna die.
Yeah. it's true.
You're forgetting something.
Guys. guys. that's if
that were to happen. right?
They're gonna figure this out.
Right now. the best
minds in the entire world
are on it.
Well. I woke up Sunday morning with no
way to hold my head and it didn't hurt.
VODKA
Good morning. Dr. Grace.
I'm up.
Commander Yao
ILYUKHINA
Wishing. Lord.
that I was stoned.
Who am I?
Grace
Cause there's something in a
Sunday that makes a body feel alone.
Ah!: The Element of Surprise
Always Muscles?? "have I always been muscular?"
Friends?
And there's nothing
short of dying.
Half as lonesome as it sounds.
On the sleeping city side
walls Sunday morning coming down
How did I get here?
Sun
Knock. knock.
Who's there?
Not good at jokes.
Not good at jokes. who?
Dr. Grace.
Maybe. Eva Stratt. I'm with the
Petrova task force. I need your help.
Me. Did you write this?
An Analysis Of Water Based Assumptions
and Recalibrations of Expectations
for Evolutionary Models
Oh. I'm interested in
this section here. page 31.
The Goldilocks Zone is for idiots.
why everyone is wrong about life.
That was a long time ago.
Did you stand by what you wrote?
I was fired for
standing by what I wrote.
You were fired for calling the
leading scholar in your field a
a staggering waste of carbon at
the UNESCO conference in Denmark?
You-- You heard about that. huh?
Look. I don't know what
this is. but. uh. I think. uh
I'm not su-- That's lava.
It's not. Okay.
No one in your field wants
anything to do with you
because you refuse to back
down from a very unpopular view.
and I can give you a chance
to prove them all wrong.
Uh. that's uh--
Kevin. no running.
I'm not.
Joke's on them because
I don't even care. so...
I think you do care.
You're just running away
because you're scared.
No. I'm not.
Do you still believe water is
unnecessary for life to evolve?
Look. there is nothing magical
about hydrogen and oxygen.
Water is required for
life on Earth. sure.
but a completely different planet might
have completely different conditions.
I don't know why that
makes me such a nut.
I need you to come with us.
Sorry. I didn't
catch your name Carl.
Carl. hi.
Dr. Grace.
Petrova line samples
splashed down last night.
I want you to tell me what
they are. how they work.
I am a teacher at
Grover Cleveland Middle.
You have a doctorate
in molecular biology.
And I ride a bike to work.
and it's not for exercise.
so I'm sure there are
thousands of other people...
It survives on the
surface of the sun.
Does that sound like a
water-based life form to you?
The sun's really
dying. isn't it?
Yeah.
Is all of this necessary?
Yes.
Please analyze
the Petrova sample.
Just one thing.
The entire room is
filled with argon.
Just try not to rip your suit.
Am I expendable?
Is that what you want me?
That's not the only reason.
It's almost like you
don't care if I die.
Hold on. You have
to talk about it?
Consensus here is that it would
be preferable if you did not die.
Thanks guys.
Oh.
to Earth.
Are they alive?
They're moving.
So they're alive.
Yes. they're moving. but
that could be for many reasons.
What are they made of?
It's going to take a long time. It took like
200 years to figure out how bacteria work.
Please do it faster.
I'm just going through the
whole light spectrum here.
Wow!
You're not going
to believe this.
Nothing happened.
I can't see into these
Amazing.
microwaves. gamma rays.
visible light. Nothing!
I've been dying
to do this all day.
It's a cell.
It's a cell... Wake
up! It's a cell!
It's a tiny alien cell.
You guys!
Applause.
Guys! This is first contact!
It's life! Outside of the...
Uh-oh.
Oh. it died.
What?
This is great news.
Now we can find out
what they're made of.
You guys fired up?
Yes!
Right?
Carbon.
Oxygen.
Hydrogen.
Oh.
It's made.
It's made...
of water.
Alright.
Sorry if I overreacted in there. Just. uh. realizing
I was wrong about the only original idea I ever had.
Yeah. what else did you learn?
They give off infrared light when they move.
Like so much. I don't know how they store
store all that energy. But their wavelength
is exactly the Petrova frequency.
Their light is how they move.
Yeah. they consume the sun's energy and then they
expel it for propulsion. They toot to scoot. basically.
Why did it go to Venus?
I don't know.
Okay. we'll tell you. What?
I have 347 other biologists in 21 countries
mobilizing as we speak. so thank you for your help.
I'm glad you didn't die.
Let's pack this up!
That's it?!
That's it. Carl?
Talk to her.
You're taking all this stuff?
At the school you said there were thousands
of people more qualified than you. so...
I was being modest.
I don't need modest. I need people who think they're
right when everyone else thinks they're wrong.
I need people who
piss other people off.
That's me!
Do you want to
be on our project?
If you... If you think I can help.
then... Just answer the question.
I want to help the world.
I left you three dots.
Just three. huh?
Plus the one you killed.
I would take the three.
Yes? I'll take the dots.
Get to work. Dr. Grace.
The world is counting on you.
Astrophage
Why Venus ???
Hey. Carl?
This is Carl.
Imagine... for a second that
you're an interstellar microorganism.
I'm not doing that.
Why would you leave
the Sun and go to Venus?
Why not stop at
Mercury. it's closer?
Maybe fresh air?
Venus's atmosphere
is mostly CO2.
Maybe that's fresh air to them.
You don't know what doing
a little space dust like?
Berlin . Stockholm . Beijing
Cape Town . Mexico City . Tokyo
Cambridge . Milan . Sao Paulo
Hey Carl.
do we have an expense account?
We don't.
But. I do.
Thank you.
Do you have a coupon?
We don't need a coupon.
We're the government.
Which government?
All of them.
So this box is Venus?
The box is Venus.
It's set to emit the same infrared
light frequency as Venus's CO2 atmosphere.
So if the dots move when
you turn the lights on.
that means they're
looking for CO2.
Thus proving the
Carl hypothesis.
Sick.
All right. you ready?
Uh-oh.
Why are you saying. uh-oh?
The astrophage
moved off the slide.
Huh?
We lost them.
What do you mean we
lost them? Go get them.
If I open the door and the
light. they're gonna escape
and then we'll lose them forever.
At least now they're in the box.
So then just turn
the lights off.
They'll still be light.
It's got to be total darkness.
Okay. so just put
this box in another box.
Go ahead and close it over.
I can hear you.
Entering phase two.
I'm in.
Please report over.
There's one.
There's two!
Come on. get the third one.
Got sample three. The three
musketeers - the three stooges.
What?
Are you sitting down?
No. I'm standing up.
I'm standing like a grown man.
'Cause there's a fourth.
What?
We're fathers. Carl.
Now I'm sitting down.
Stop.
Carl and I made a baby.
What?
We figured out how
astrophage breeds.
Don't move.
What's up?
Carl. Strat said she was sending
jets. I thought you meant like a PJ.
I thought you did.
I know.
Take this.
It's been a long time since I've taken a pill
from a stranger without knowing what it was.
Dr. Grace. how was your flight?
Where are we?
The ocean.
The astrophage reproduction.
can you do it at scale?
Oh. in theory.
You just get a bunch of elbow
shaped pipe. put sunlight in one end.
Excuse me for a second.
Write it down.
And IR line CO2 in the other.
Repeat. Anything else
you need for this?
Just some water.
he gave me a pill and
it's still in my throat.
Two venti coffees?
Thank you so much.
Water for him.
Or coffee.
I need both.
Or not.
Okay. so this is kind of a tough room.
So don't take it personally. I don't
I don't need anything fancy.
As long as there's a bed
and a shower. I'm good.
I can't.
You're doing great.
Everyone. this is Dr. Rylan
Grace from the United States.
Please go here.
Thank you.
And he figured out
how to breed astrophage.
How did you do it?
How long does the process take?
Was it reproduced by
mitosis or meiosis?
What is the incubation period?
Carl and I made a mini
venus out of a plywood box.
Germany . India
And as soon as the samples recognized
the spectral signature of CO2.
they were...
Like whoomp. there it is.
Okay. Whoomp. there it is.
you can sit down.
You can sit down in this chair.
While your experiment
was crude and clumsy.
our scientists have
replicated his results.
Sorry. how did you
see. how did you?
We estimate an
eight-day doubling time
under optimal conditions.
Dr. Grace is right.
Oh. It is the CO2.
That's why they're
going to Venus.
you say it for everyone?
That's why they're
going to Venus.
So that's why they're
Venus. is what
Dr. Grace wants to say?
They're going to breathe.
Whoomp. there it is.
I really like him.
How long to make two
million kilograms?
Two million?
Two million is... Why on Earth
would you need that
much astrophage?
Nobody told him?
He has no clearance.
Stand up. Dr. Grace.
Clearance?
Stand up.
I hereby grant you
top secret clearance
to all information pertaining
to Project Hail Mary.
What's Project Hail Mary?
All right.
What is "Project Hail Mary"?
The sun is not the
only star dying.
There is a clear
pattern of infection.
Every star was infected
by its neighbor except one.
Tau Ceti. that's right.
11.9 light years away.
It is uninfected
despite being well
within the cluster
of infected stars.
Why?
Why? Tell him.
We don't know.
Which is why we
decided to build a ship
ship to go there and find out.
It's 11.9 light years away.
You can't just build
an interstellar ship.
Oh. yeah. we can.
The ship is not
really the problem.
The energy required to
power the ship is the problem.
It was the problem.
Project Hail Mary - FUEL SYSTEM
Weep. weep.
2 Million kg Astrophage Fuel
The astrophage is the fuel.
Provided we can
make enough of it.
And for that. we
need you. my friend.
Me?
Ooh. Those little guys
store a lot of energy.
One mistake in that much
astrophage could vaporize
California.
That's true. which is
why you now live on a boat
boat in the middle of
the ocean in Gainesville.
I live on the boat?
You do.
So you wanna build a
near light speed spaceship.
have it travel further
than any human-made object
has ever traveled.
and visit a star just to
see what's up? Yeah.
And then what?
There won't be enough
fuel for a round trip.
so they send their findings
back to Earth on probes.
Probe in Flight
"Beetle" Prototype Design
And the astronauts
die in space?
Yes.
Space.
Any other plans you thought of?
Anything else? Anything
else you're kicking around?
There are infinite
possibilities.
For this to go wrong. it
almost certainly won't work.
It's what you Americans
would call a long shot.
Hail Mary.
I get it.
The alternative is
to just do nothing.
And to starve and
to kill each other
and watch everything on
this planet go extinct.
including us.
So...
That's a long time
to be in space.
We'll be in comas
for most of it.
But is that even safe?
Nothing about this is safe.
We only need three.
A pilot. an engineer.
and a scientist.
Commander Yao.
I must have known you.
but I just don't remember.
You make a funny face in
literally every picture.
You must have been very
smart and strong and brave.
First. I owe you
three bags of vodka.
You seem to have
had a lot of friends.
This picture of you.
what looks like
sneaking into the Kremlin.
is
legendary.
I wish you were still here.
I wish I wasn't alone.
I wish I was doing a better job.
I just. uh...
You were both very loved.
You deserve much more than this.
I'll do my best to make
sure that you don't...
You know. that you didn't...
I'll do my best.
Caution:
Override Outer Airlock Hatch
Approaching Tau Ceti orbit.
Prepare for engine cutoff.
Fourteen. Thirteen.
Twelve. Eleven.
Pilot detected.
I'm not a pilot!
What happens at
zero? I mean. what?
You are now orbiting
Tau Ceti. Ah!
What the fudging fudger!
Ah! Ah! Ah!
Petrovascope operational.
Location: Cockpit
It's Tau Ceti.
You have a Petrova line.
but you're not dimming.
Why?
What is that?
Blip-A detected.
What's a Blip-A?
No. no. no. no. no.
Let's go. let's go. Mary.
Mary. No. no. no.
no. no. no. no.
Pilot detected!
Please engage restraint.
Getting out of here.
Engage spin drive.
Incorrect.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
Welcome to the Hail Mary.
Is it this thing?
Erratic maneuver detected.
Yuck.
Oh. no.
Blip-A detected.
What does it want?
What?
Blip-B detected.
What's up with this thing?
Current distance from
Hail Mary is 800 meters.
It's sending me something.
It could be a message.
Oh. no.
It could be a bomb.
Is it a bomb?
Shields up!
There are no shields
on board the Hail Mary.
Why not?
30 meters.
20 meters.
Ten.
Well. I guess there's egg
on both our faces. huh Mary?
What's that?
Why is it moving so much
slower than the last one?
They think I'm dumb.
If we were going to
catch it. what would we do?
Would you like to go on
a spacewalk. Dr. Grace?
To begin your spacewalk. put on your
??? suit and proceed to the airlock.
Yes!
Depressurization in progress
No.
It's just crazy.
Oh. God.
Location: Exterior Hail Mary
(outside of the ship)
Oh. God.
Righty. tighty. lefty-loosey.
Xenon Indentification
Xenon's a gas.
I think this thing's broken.
We need equipment to analyze
the astrophage at Tau Ceti.
Right.
Most of this equipment
won't work in zero gravity.
And we have a team to develop and build
zero gravity versions of this equipment.
We would need years for
that. and we have months.
What's the alternative?
We make gravity.
Centrifuge?
Centrifuge.
They use them to make butter
during the Civil War. actually.
It's a fun fact.
Lab operational.
Still Xenon.
Up is down. left is
right. Xenon's a solid.
aliens are real.
I'm wrong about everything
and everything's wrong.
Lefty. tighty. righty-loosey.
I mean... Oh no!
Foreign presence detected.
40 Eridani Sirius
You're a long way from home.
I'm a long way from home. too.
Blip-D detected.
Is that me?
I don't understand.
You want me to go
back in my ship?
But I just got here. Okay.
Okay. I'll talk
to you later. Bye.
Location: Exterior Hail Mary
(outside of the ship)
What are they doing. Mary?
It is not advised.
Thank you. Mary.
Centrifugal Gravity System: Standing By
Centrifugal Gravity System: Engaging
Depressurization in progress
Ext Pressure: 21.1 kPa
Ext Temp: 22° C
What?
Oh my. This is new.
Anybody home?
I like what you've
done with the gravity.
I made you a ship. It's ramen.
I only made one.
I'm not sure how
many of you there are.
Hi. No. no. no. I'm
sorry. I'm sorry.
You scared me when you went...
Oh
Can't seem to see your face...
Mysterious! Faces are overrated.
Oh
You like tapping. huh?
You're pointing! You're
not tapping. Sorry.
I don't have one
of these. I love it!
Thank you.
put this on my head?
Take off my head?
Take my helmet off?
No.
That's a big ask. Oh.
This is taking a turn. Thank you for
the... What I hope is not handcuffs.
I'm sorry about the
whole helmet thing.
Unfortunately. I need
oxygen to breathe. so...
Two rings of eight.
O2.
you little rascal.
This is oxygen.
I still don't think I
can do it. though. Sorry.
It's just. uh... If I'm
wrong. I'm really wrong.
It's the Petrova line.
We're here for the same reason.
You have a Petrova
line problem. too.
You need to solve it.
I need to solve it.
That's why you made me this.
I'm going to take that as a yes.
If we're going to save our planets.
we have to learn how to communicate.
You know. they say math
is the universal language.
I thought maybe we could learn how to
communicate. Wait. find out if that's true.
You see the numbers?
Oh. you want this?
Whoa!
Christmas Eve. that is...
It's really hot in there.
Is that ammonia?
Anyway. that's...
Look. see the numbers?
they're on the other side.
Do it again.
If you do it again.
don't let it snap back.
don't do it.
Hold it like that.
and you look.
Wow.
How about something else?
Look at this.
Clock.
We both have time. right?
These are the hands.
and these are the numbers.
One. two. three.
They point to the numbers. And if you'll notice.
there's numbers there and there's also numbers here.
Okay.
It is dark.
I got an idea. Wait. Don't... Yeah. Don't go
anywhere. Stay. Oh. yeah. Um... I'm Grace.
I'm gonna call you Rocky. You know. because
you look like a giant rock. Oh. I'm fine.
Echolocation. Right? You
need surfaces to see. Try this.
You see the numbers?
What is that? Is that
good? Jazz hands means good.
do this. Your version of this is our thumbs up.
No. that's thumbs down. We do the thumbs up.
It's close enough.
You want me to wait?
I wait? Yeah. No.
I'm really. uh. really excited
to be working with you on this.
Fired up. I'm sorry I'm talking so much. It's just
that I haven't been around anyone in a long time.
What have we got here?
It's a clock. I
showed you a clock
You're showing me a clock.
We're. uh. clock bros.
Right. Um. I gotta be honest.
I'm not sure I'm getting all of
Check this
I thought I might record you. Oh. no. no.
Nope. that's okay. It's just a microphone.
microphone. Looks like they
say. uh. let's start with one.
What? Wait. wait. wait. sorry.
Okay. one. and
What? Okay.
So. uh. I met an alien.
and we're learning
to communicate.
Let's do names.
Okay. let's start with you.
Rocky.
You done?
My name. can't wait
to hear this. is Grace.
What's your word for
my name? Go ahead.
You know. enough to order at
restaurants. we have about 250 words.
My atmosphere would
kill him and his meat.
but I like to keep a wall up
in my relationships anyways.
He's a mechanic. I think.
He uses a metal form of xenon.
He can make anything. Look at
this. I'm calling it Xenonite.
And if I can't understand what
he's saying. which is most of the
time. he puts on a little puppet
show for me and my tiny brain.
and you know what?
I don't mind it.
He's kind of growing on me.
At least he's not growing in me.
you know. which was a
concern for a little while.
His sun is dying. too. so
maybe we can help each other.
Recognize this?
We call it astrophage.
It means star eater.
Astrophage on me. star. bad.
bad. bad. bad. bad. bad. yeah.
Same.
Why are you alone?
23.
Wow.
What happened to them?
I'm sorry.
How did they die?
There were three of us and
two died on the way here.
I wish I knew why.
That was only me.
Only Us
Correction.
Grace Rocky save stars
Deal.
Called a "fist
bump." by the way.
Fist my bump?
No. it's fist bump.
It's not the same.
Exactly. The astrophage has to reach Tau Ceti.
otherwise we wouldn't see the Petrova line.
Grace very bad at make model
Ho ho ho.
Do we really need
this whole model?
Need know why star not die. Need plan.
Need model to make plan.
Grace question is dumb.
Right.
Oh boy.
You know. I used to have one of these in my
classroom and it was a lot simpler to set up.
One sec. What? What?
- Why is a school teacher in space. question?
- That is a great question
You know what? Try this.
Why is a schoolteacher
in space? Question.
No.
Can't unhear it. really.
Let's try this.
No. No need to even
continue. Good. Nope.
I mean...
Meryl Streep?
Why is a school
teacher in space?
She can do anything.
Why is a schoolteacher in space?
That's not bad.
I like.
All right. And in answer to your question.
I have no idea what I'm doing in space.
I don't remember.
Is okay. Grace find
out when Grace go home.
I'm gonna go to sleep.
No understand. Word.
Sleep.
Just go like this.
Died? Died?
No. not died.
Just lay here for
29.000 seconds and then we
wake up.
Oh. understand.
We call this sleep.
Okay. here we go.
Sleep.
Good night. sir.
I watch Grace sleep.
No. that's fine.
That's a little weird.
I'll be good. Good night.
night. Not safe.
Eridians must watch sleep.
That's really interesting.
That sounds like something. uh.
you know. unpack that tomorrow.
Rocky watch crew many days.
Crew not wake up.
That's where you're gonna be?
No. it's usually closer.
On your chest.
I wonder if it would work
from a little farther back.
But Grace won't feel
comfortable and safe.
Well. I. look. I'm seeing
so many sides of you lately
and it's great.
Right now I'm seeing
the underside of you.
I'm a side sleeper anyway.
Good night.
So we watch each other sleep.
Eridians don't sleep
like a human does.
They seem
legitimately paralyzed.
If danger comes.
you can't wake up.
It's a survival norm.
Someone has to keep you safe.
My team. I want you to
meet Dr. Ryland Grace.
He is currently the
world's leading authority
in astrophage biology.
Dr. Grace. these are
the three astronauts
astronauts going on the mission
and their backups for redundancy.
Yao.
Ilyukhina. and Dubois.
our pilot. engineer.
and science officer.
It's an honor.
I'm excited to share what
I've learned about astrophage
and spin drives.
We have 1.009 of these
little engines that
could on the Hail Mary.
And. uh...
Once the mission is complete. we have
the option to end our lives on our terms.
The alternative is slow.
miserable death by starvation.
I want to do lethal injection
with a little bit of heroin.
I will have what she's having.
Following on from Dr. Grace's
discovery. we've built an IR emitter
set to the wavelength of CO2. which attracts
the astrophage to this revolver face.
The drive then rotates outwards.
We increase the IR. the astrophage get
excited. thrust the ship forward. and so on.
This is less than a gram of astrophage. and we only need
a fraction of this for this demonstration. Take a look.
To do what?
To melt a metric ton of metal.
Vacuum Chamber
Powerful stuff.
Commander Yao. I really
appreciate what you all are doing.
You would do the same.
I would choose just
not to go at all.
I don't have the bravery gene
that you all have. Trust me.
It's not a gene. You just need
to find someone to be brave for.
Movement detected.
Hi. Grace.
You're in a ball.
So Rocky no die in Grace
atmosphere. I come up.
Oh. you're coming up.
Foreign entity detected.
Grace and Rocky. big science.
How to kill astrophage together.
I keep going this way?
This room boring. Rocky.
science. Save Earth.
save Erid. Good plan.
What's this down here? Question
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Rocky. what is your
human technology?
Dirty. dirty.
dirty. dirty. dirty.
Why room so messy?
Well. I wasn't
expecting company. was I?
This room for garbage?
Oh.
Dirty. Dirty. Dirty.
This is the lab. This is
where the science happens.
What's this? What's this?
Oh. that's an evaporator.
What's this?
That is the disco ball.
That makes me happy.
Rocky will build work from here.
We'll need much room for Rocky
and much less space for Grace.
What is happening here?
We go Petrova line. We
collect astrophage. We study it.
We go home. We collect.
And you say we.
I'd be great!
Whoa!
Apology. apology. apology.
Rocky. stay.
Rocky. new to ball.
Rocky. my hand is up.
We can't just show up in a space ball unannounced
and move into someone else's spaceship.
right? There has
to be boundaries.
Boundaries.
We have one mission.
Mission.
But we're two
distinct individuals.
Individuals.
Both working on our distinct
individual parts of that mission.
Mission.
Separately.
Okay. Where my bedroom?
Bedrooms?
what?
So I have a new roommate now.
Be careful back there. okay?
The chore wheel
is pretty lopsided.
Where on Earth does that go?
Not on Earth. More high.
It goes this way?
All the way out to here?
Yes. Out pointy. What?
You're telling me what to do. He tells
me why to do it. He tells me how to do it.
He tells me when to do it.
And then when I do it. he's
like. what are you doing?
I'm just saying you're going to get out
of the ball to get into a much bigger ball?
Why?
You don't even use a bed.
You know you have the. like.
Hellraiser thing that you sleep on.
What do you need a bed for?
Don't talk to Armando. Yes.
Can I help you?
You're doing this.
It's a lot of this.
And then he's like. no
understand. no understand.
And then it's
like. I need a word.
You know what the
word is? Bossy.
I'm like one of the villains in the Superman
movie. I'm just. like. trapped in hell.
Get me out of here!
His eating habits are...
exotic.
Grapes look disgust when eat.
How do you look when you eat?
You look beautiful.
Show me.
Oh. my God.
He has incredible hearing.
He can see through walls.
Personal space is at a premium.
Who is Grace
talking to? Question.
There's no way you
can hear me right now.
Can hear. Who are
you talking to?
You can hear this.
Yes. Grace say
you can hear this.
Yes. Oh. my God. Look at
this. Look how far away he is.
That is where he is.
Hello. Grace.
He's right here.
here. Hello. Grace friend. Okay.
Did Grace find
sampler instruction?
Yes. I found the sampler.
Yes. I found the
sampler instruction.
He's really smart
about some things.
Oh. my God. He's got a gun.
Oh. this?
No. no. no.
This to screen in front.
And now this to that over here.
Now Rocky can hear screen.
Please don't point it at me.
Oh. point over here.
Yes. Okay. Now over there.
You can point it at me again.
But his species doesn't know about
things like relativity and radiation.
And the rest of the crew?
In mid of ship there.
And here?
And where did you
keep the astrophage?
Fuel tank's next to
Rocky Workshop. it's there.
I think the radiation is
what made your crew sick. Rock.
The astrophage probably
just protected you from it.
This isn't something
that you could have fixed.
But I guess together we're.
you know. pretty smart.
Since we're only going to be able to intersect
with the Petrova line for a few seconds.
we're not going to have enough
time to get a good sample.
Too fast. Do puppet
show. Too fast.
I don't want to
do the puppet show.
No. do puppet show.
This is us. We're.
you know. flying along.
The problem is. because the
solar system is constantly moving.
the patrol line's going to
constantly be moving. right?
Am I still doing it?
You still want it?
Yes. yes. Show time.
So we're not going to
have time to get the sample.
No. no. no. Use planet
gravity to move with line.
You mean sort of like
rest in its orbit?
Yes.
I didn't think of that.
I did.
We figured out a plan.
We're going to orbit the
planet where astrophage breeds.
collect a sample. and figure
out why it's not eating Tau Ceti.
Who is Grace talking to?
I'm not talking to anyone.
I need a break.
Break from what?
Oh my God. forget it.
This isn't going to work.
150 million kilometers away.
racing along at 162
kilometers per second.
We should arrive at Tau Ceti E
Arrival at Tau Ceti E in 11
days. 3 hours. and 14 minutes.
Thank you. Mary.
You're welcome. Dr. Grace.
You're welcome. Rocky.
Welcome to Earth.
You're in the mental health
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa!
Careful. Rocky. Look out below.
The beach is always changing.
You could go to the
same spot every day.
You're always looking
at a different beach.
Trees.
And you climb. and you
climb to the top. and you
so excited about us
both getting to go home.
There's no harm in
pretending for a little while.
Touch the wave.
Touching the wave.
Wiping out.
Hanging ten.
Oh.
Big happen. baby.
In three. Apollo trains him.
And in seven. he
trains Apollo's kid.
Yeah. yeah.
Clutch. clutch. clutch. clutch.
Clutch. clutch. clutch.
I say either. you say... No.
I say neither. you
say... Neither. No.
I like Earth.
I miss the fog.
What about you. Rock?
What do you miss
most about home?
My mate.
Wait. what?
You got a mate?
Yes.
I mean. not that you...
I mean. I'm sure...
What's their name?
Name is...
It's beautiful.
Grace have mate? Question.
No.
I mean. I did.
But she thought I had my head in the clouds. and
I didn't really want to live in the real world.
She was right.
Anyway. now she's with Mark.
Rocky hate Mark.
But enough about
me. You have a mate.
How long you been together?
186.3 years.
Like the honeymoon phase.
No. I understand.
That's a joke. right? That's a long
time. You've been together a long time.
It's not enough.
Everywhere.
Permission to come
aboard. Captain?
You're already aboard.
Did you get your free hat?
Yeah. I kind of bought them. Oh.
You don't sing. huh?
Yeah. I do. I actually sing in
an Eastern German youth choir.
You're very mysterious.
No. I'm not.
I always wanted to be
mysterious.
Talk too much. It's my problem.
Like right now.
I didn't mean to bother you.
You don't bother me.
It is such a weird party.
Is it?
Yeah. I was singing.
Everyone's so happy.
People are
hooking up. and they all
know they're going to die.
Camaraderie helps them
doing their job. you know?
Not so much me.
Must be hard having
to ask everybody to.
you know...
Actually it isn't.
Yeah.
So. what do you think?
You think you're
going to pull it off?
What. the whole thing?
Yeah.
God willing.
Believe in God?
beats the alternative.
Yeah.
Just stop your crying.
it's a sign of the times.
Welcome to the final show. I hope
you're wearing your best clothes.
You can't bribe the door
on your way to the sky.
You look pretty good down
here. but you ain't really good.
We've never learned.
we've been here before.
Why are we always stuck and
running from the bullets. the bullets?
Just stop your crying.
it's a sign of the times.
We gotta get away from here.
Just stop your crying. it'll be
alright. They told me that the end is near.
We gotta get away from here.
Just stop your crying.
have the time of your life.
Breaking through the atmosphere.
and it all looks good from here.
Remember everything
will be alright.
We can meet again somewhere.
somewhere far away from here.
And that is enough.
Wish you could see this. Rock.
Rocky can see.
Boring.
This is not boring.
Name of planet
Tau Ceti E
is same name as star.
plus E.
Boring.
I guess it could
be a little more
evocative.
Astrophage sampler in position.
Question?
Yep.
Trays are live.
looking both ways.
It is time-go.
It's time-go.
What is Grace doing?
I'm having a moment.
↓↓ ‫From Planet ↓↓
↑↑ From Star ↑↑
You know. back on Earth. if you
discover something. you get to name it.
You were technically the
first one here. so... Yes.
the name is Medium Rough
Texture Circle Planet.
Okay.
Well. if Medium Rough Texture Circle
Planet was taken. we'll just have a backup.
Maybe go with
something personal.
Personal.
your mate's name again?
Name is.
Okay. it's okay. I remember.
Need human word for Rocky mate.
Adrian.
It's beautiful.
It's the same amount.
both coming and going.
But if Astrophage is going to Adrian
to breed. there should be more leaving.
It should be double.
It doesn't make sense.
It's either not reproducing or it's
not leaving the planet for some reason.
Oh. my God.
What? What Grace see?
What Grace see? Question
Life.
This is not just astrophage.
It's bacteria.
It's protozoa.
It's like cells on Erid.
And Earth.
What does this mean? Question.
Well. if there's a
whole active biosphere
in the Petrova line.
it stands to reason there's
a whole active biosphere
on Adrian. which means...
there's life on Adrian.
Oh. Grace! Grace!
Yeah?
Life! Life is reason!
Yeah. No. no. no.
No. no understand.
Use your words.
Life is reason for what?
Life is the reason for what?
Life is reason! Life is reason!
Life is reason what?
Life on Adrian is reason
astrophage in balance.
Life on Adrian
makes astrophage die.
Like a predator.
Yes.
That would keep the
population stable.
Grace. if we bring predator
home. our stars not die.
Life is reason star not die.
Why didn't you just say that?
If. there is some kind of
microbial predator on Adrian.
It'll be in the clouds where
astrophage breathes. Check.
Oh! The problem is
this ship wasn't built
to go into the atmosphere.
If we get within
five kilometers.
we'll be ripped
into a million pieces
and then we'll burn up.
Game over.
Game not over.
I make chains.
I make long chain.
I put collection device on end.
Oh yeah. yeah. five
kilometers of chain. sure.
Garbage!
Like this chain. look.
You can do that? Yes.
I like fishing.
What's that?
Oh! Oh! Fishing!
Can you believe it?
It can work.
Thumbs up. baby.
Hello. Earth.
Plan is like fishing.
We get very close
to Adrian atmosphere
and lower collector
into clouds with chain.
Then Grace go on
hull to reel it in.
If ship not at precise
angle and speed. we die.
Example.
We must fly backwards
to keep proper velocity.
Even though Grace still
have no pilot experience.
I've been practicing. haven't I?
More. No. no. no. Left.
More left.
It's perfect.
No. Wrong.
No. Wrong way.
Wrong way.
Wrong angle.
Bad. bad. bad.
Good. good. good.
Good. Bad.
Not enough.
Too much.
I'm barely pulling it.
No. it's bad.
Grace rocky hit.
All Rocky plural. All Earth die.
We die.
Rocky has built
Predator Collector.
Rocky chain spooled and ready.
Grace pilot training.
Not as good.
What think. Earth?
Hello? They can't hear you. pal.
What? We're not
actually talking to Earth.
Earth's too far away.
You know. we just
record these messages
and we tell them
what we've learned
and then when we're done.
we'll send them
all back in a probe.
Why not you tell them
yourself when you return home?
Question.
Yeah.
This is a one-way
ticket for me. pal.
What? We had enough
astrophage to get here.
but not enough to get back.
So what happens. Grace?
Question.
Oh. I've... I got
enough food to last me
at least a couple years.
Maybe a couple more
if I stretch it out.
So. Grace die?
Question?
Yeah. once we're done.
I'm... I'm gonna die.
Why didn't you tell me?
It slipped my mind.
No.
Grace say Grace go home.
Listen. listen.
No. no.
Listen. I got to meet you.
I got to do all
this amazing stuff.
I'm good.
I've made peace with it.
What mean? What mean make peace?
It means I know
I'm not going home.
I know why.
And it's okay.
Thumbs up? No.
Tiny thumbs up?
No. We got stars to save. okay?
Grace?
Yeah.
You are...
need word.
What word do you need? To
risk self to help another.
Uh. dumb.
Grace?
Grace? How much astrophage
you need. question?
Two million kilograms.
I can give.
I go home six years slower.
That's too much.
Rocky watch crew die.
Could not fix.
Grace say Grace will die.
Rocky fix.
Grace go home.
Okay.
Uh... I thought you
made peace. question?
I didn't mean any of that.
That's just something you say.
Thank you.
Get over here.
Whoa. whoa. whoa.
What? What's happening?
A hug.
Oh.
It's usually not something
one does by themselves. Oh.
Wait. I do the same?
Would you just get in here?
How do you know
when the hug is done?
You just feel it.
Oh.
Are you feeling it now?
No.
Oh. Oh. okay. yeah.
We ran the sampler
simulation again this morning.
Shapiro and Dubois
nailed it again.
Okay. What about the others?
They'll be ready.
I expect so.
They have a great teacher.
Can you take a
compliment. please? No.
It's an order.
Okay.
If it's an order. I'll take it.
Thank you.
Good.
What do you think?
It's pretty impressive.
Yeah.
You're... You're good.
Three days. huh?
Yeah.
So... What are you gonna
do for the next 20 years?
You got a plan?
Huh.
Manual mode activated.
Pull the trigger.
That's not half bad.
It's full
Time to go fishing. question?
It's now or never.
3.000 meters.
Probe signal.
Good.
Now comes the fun part.
Grace go out on hull to
retrieve collector? No fun at all.
It's a joke.
Oh. humor.
Confusing.
You've got to be kidding me.
What problem. question?
It's fine.
It's just the sky
is slightly on fire.
Words of encouragement.
You can't just say
words of encouragement.
Words of great encouragement.
Nope.
Feel that?
Yeah.
not worried.
Are you worried?
Yes.
Great.
Collector is close.
Move winch into position.
How long is this
supposed to take?
Collector should be here soon.
Yeah. it's here.
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Careful. collector important.
Yep.
Altitude warning.
Warning: Low Altitude
Oh. hurry. hurry.
Hurry. hurry.
Grace. status update.
Grace.
Grace is safe.
I'm okay.
Good. good. good.
Come inside with
predator collector now.
Uh.
Why not moving?
Question.
Warning.
exterior temperature elevated.
Must move now. Go.
No. Grace.
Bad idea.
Come inside.
Be there in a minute.
No. no. no. no. no.
no. no. Grace will die.
Can repeat mission.
Can try again later.
I don't think the risk
is going to be a later.
Abort. abort. abort.
Grace will die.
No. no. no. no. no. no.
Grace?
I'm here.
Amaze. amaze. amaze.
Grace okay? Question.
Well. I'm not dead. so yes.
Good. good. good. good. good.
Where is that noise coming from?
noise is from all around.
It's loudest at
port side of bedroom.
The gravity is
tearing the ship apart.
we leave now?
Question.
Leave now.
Statement.
Hull pressure warning. warning.
Hull bending in big
room below bedroom.
That's the fuel tanks.
Oh. bad. bad. bad.
It's not great.
Warning.
Okay. okay. okay.
Everyone. everyone. calm down.
Calm down!
Try to keep yourself
together. Very good.
Stop engine now?
Not yet.
We need to get into
orbit or we'll crash.
I have an idea.
First. no crash.
Then. not explode.
Deal?
Deal.
Hold on.
Now?
Wait.
Now!
we do it?
Why ship moving? Question
There's a hole in it!
Hull breach. portside
fuel compartments 11 and 12.
What happening? Question
The fuel is migrating to Adrian!
Eject bad fuel bay. question?
Yeah.
Jettison port fuel tank
compartment 12. Confirm.
Port Fuel Tank Compartment 12
EJECTING
Excessive Centrifugal:
FORCE
Port Fuel Tank Compartment 11
ARMED
Jettison port fuel tank
compartment 11. Confirm.
Eject other fuel bay!
Centrifugal Gravity System: Standing By
Centrifugal Gravity System: Engaged
One nanogram of astrophage
isn't enough to blow up a building.
The photon master gave him
one milligram by mistake.
That's a million times the heat
energy that they're prepared for.
A measuring mistake killed
my entire science team.
Doesn't matter.
we have to launch.
‫First Science Officer Martin DuBlois
Alternate Science Officer Anne Shapiro
Physical Science Technician Jamie Davis
If we miss the orbital window.
it'll set us back months.
Yeah. but if no one's trained to
do the mission. it won't matter.
Casualty projections go up
exponentially if we delay.
We launch on schedule with a
replacement science officer.
Okay. but... who? I mean that...
I'm not an astronaut.
I don't need an astronaut. I need an
expert on astrophage who's mission ready.
I'm not ready. I
don't have any training.
Well. pick it up.
I'm not an astronaut. I
put the not in astronaut.
I've never done anything. I've never
done a spacewalk. I can't even moonwalk.
I haven't done the
whole pool thing.
No. no. no. this is just for
the picture. For social media.
I'm not heroic in any way.
I get sick on the elevator.
Perfect. there's no
elevator on the ship.
I cannot do this. You're smart.
You'll figure it out.
This might be very hard
for you to understand.
but some people are failures.
Some people don't
rise to the challenge.
You've been present for
every major scientific
or strategic meeting
we've had on the mission.
You're missing out an
important part of the mission.
which is the suicide part.
Grace. you'd be in
very cool company.
If you don't go. you die anyway.
Yeah. but I die
in 30 years with...
With the rest of us.
You have no immediate family.
You don't even have a dog.
So. just so I'm clear.
you're asking me right now to
give up my life.
I am. We all are.
Can I think about this?
You have three hours.
movement detected.
Good morning. Doctor Grace.
I'll watch you sleep. uh
But uh... you gotta wake up.
I'm not sure what to do.
Location: Laboratory
I've done everything
I can think of.
I made him a heat lamp.
And he left me one last message.
‫Save Earth. Save Erid
Astrophage
We have our predator.
Right now I'm calling it Taumoeba. And I'm sure
that when you wake up. you'll have a lot to say...
about why that's a bad name. because
it's just an amoeba from Tau Ceti
and putting tau in front of amoeba. But I would
argue there's an elegance to that. a simplicity.
Let's not fight about it now.
Let's just. we'll table it.
I did a test at different atmospheric variables
and fun fact. every time I introduced nitrogen.
it died.
And I know you're thinking. well. that's terrible
because that's a problem because we needed
to survive in the conditions of Venus. Obviously
I had to figure out how to breed a new strain
of nitrogen-resistant
Taumoeba and guess what I used?
The breeder tanks that we made with your
Xenonite. And you know what? Now we're just
Taumoeba-10 : Fail
a couple of very cool dudes with their very
own strain of nitrogen resistant Taumoeba.
Really all we have to do now is breed enough
to survive the trip. And you got to wake up
because I don't know how to get
your half of the Taumoeba to Erid. So
no pressure. but
we did make a deal.
Save the world
Shhh.
Grace?
Rock. could you just
I don't know.
give me a little
chance. please.
to sleep a little?
Did we find Predator?
No is yes.
Amaze. Amaze. Amaze.
Rocky. Breeder Tank design.
Good job. bro.
We can go home.
Statement.
Fist my bump.
No.
That's still not right.
I'll do it.
Good. good. good.
So what we do now?
Question.
We party.
Wow.
Is special clothing
for celebration.
You're making me think
that I have to up my game.
What is this?
you don't mind.
Rocky get one.
There you go.
It's good.
Savior of the universe
Oh. yeah.
Not much. just a
little something.
Very own laptop.
My portable earth
thinking machine.
With all human knowledge.
Thank you. thank you. thank you.
And just one more thing.
Yes?
What. what's this?
It's earth.
So you can remember me.
Rocky can't forget.
I didn't get you anything.
You gave me everything.
But if I were to
give you something.
It'd be pretty cool
to see your ship.
Ooh.
I love you.
I understand you think I'm the right
person for this mission. but I can't do it.
Can't do it.
You'll find a solution.
You are my solution.
My place is in the classroom. Stop
pretending this is about your students.
it's so insulting. Grace. we will lose a quarter
of the world's population in next 30 years.
And that assumes that the nations of
the world work together to ration food
which they won't. So I double the estimate.
And if you would truly care about...
...the children or anyone else for
that matter. you'd get on that ship.
I understand the stakes. I
do. But I don't have it in me.
My mind is made up. I'm sorry.
but you just can't talk me into it.
I'm not trying to talk you into anything.
I am trying to make you understand
what I'm about to do
next. Yeah. please.
Stay calm. Come in.
What is this?
Mission plan will state that we induced
your coma early to maximize your safety.
You will be
remembered as a hero.
Come on. This is crazy.
I have to do it.
You're not. Come on.
What are you doing?
This may seem like me betraying you.
but it's actually me believing in you.
It sure feels like
you're betraying me.
Don't make this harder. please.
Come on. I'm coming.
Let's keep talking about it.
Sit down and we
do it differently.
Get out of here.
Yeah. he's running.
No! No! I can't do it! Don't
do it! Don't do it! Don't do it!
You know who you are.
You're going to do great.
I'm trying to think if
there's anything I forgot.
Fuel tank fix. okay? Question?
Oh. yeah. yeah.
They're working great.
Oh. good. Happy. happy. happy.
Well. my friend.
Yes. friend?
not sure what to say.
so I'm just going to...
Grace?
No one to watch you sleep.
Yeah.
You are very brave.
I don't know about that.
You are the bravest
human I have ever met.
Hey.
It's a joke.
I know.
I only meet one
human. and it's you.
I get it.
It's a good joke.
Good joke.
All right.
Well... Goodbye.
No understand word.
See you later.
But I won't see you later.
I know.
How do you say
goodbye back home?
We don't.
We do this.
Journey to Earth will take four
years. two months. and eleven days.
Contamined. detected.
Grace
Contaminant detected.
‫Engines Shutting Down
Depressurization in progress
WARNING
There's a leak.
The problem is the xenonite.
The Taumoeba can get through it.
Probably because we bred it
in the xenonite breeder tanks
it evolved to escape it.
I was able to stop it before it
ate all the astrophage on the ship.
Rocky's ship is
built of xenonite.
The Taumoeba will already
be in its fuel lines.
He won't be able to find the leak
because the leak is the ship itself.
He'll be without
any fuel. Stranded.
His life support
systems will fail.
If that doesn't kill him
the radiation sickness will.
He's looking at a long. slow.
painful death.
Alone.
Who am I?
Intercept time
56.187 days
I can't do both.
I can go home.
Or I can save
I've sent you detailed
logs of all of our findings
and enough Taumoeba
for you to start
your very own Taumoeba farm.
‫Ringo
At least I never
have to hear you say.
I told you so.
Even though you were right.
George
‫John
Paul
Ringo
I'm here. buddy.
Earth. Rocky. Rocky. Earth.
Hello. Earth. I am Rocky.
I am Rocky from Erid. I am not
Rocky from movie. No. no. no. no.
I'm pretty sure they know that.
I left you detailed logs of all of our findings.
and I threw in a little something else just for fun.
Hopefully it all makes sense.
And if not. you're smart.
You'll figure it out.
This is Dr. Captain Ryland
Grace reporting from the Hail Mary.
As the Eridians say...
Let's begin.
‫Peanut Butter
‫Taumoeba Farm
Good morning. Armando.
You shouldn't have.
That's a noogie. I'm coming!
Why you take so long?
Why you always
gotta be so early?
I knock and I knock.
Yeah. I know. and I ignored you.
Grace. the door.
Close the door.
Why? I thought this
was a safe neighborhood.
I make door. You close door.
Okay. Armando
likes the fresh air.
Can we talk about the water
temperature a little bit?
Yes.
It's amazing just that
you've done it at all.
Very cold.
And before it was boiling.
Is there an in-between?
I ask Adrian to work on this.
Please tell the bio-dome
illumination team that it's perfect now.
You no want it sunnier than this?
Oh no. this is. you know
I'm a sucker for the fog.
Grace.
Yapa.
Eridian scientists are ready...
to prepare Hail Mary for journey home.
Can I think about it?
Yes. think about it long time.
Good morning. class.
Okay. Everyone.
take their seats.
Let's wake up.
Who can tell me
the speed of light?